Hello, everyone.
Welcome to WordPress
Accessibility Day.
My name is Jay McKay, and I am
the Director of Community Programs
at Nobility.
This session is going to be a
lightning round of three short talks
that have been prerecorded.
Our first talk will be Can the
Cloud Accelerate Accessibility,
presented by, Robert Jacobi, who’s
Director of WordPress, Cloudways.
The second talk will be Aria
State Management and Modern CSS,
presented by, Nick Croft,
Lead Developer at Reaktiv Studios,
and the third session will
be Introducing Accessibility
to Existing Designs, presented
by, Katie Gleason, Web Designer
at WP Engine.
For this session, there will not be
a Q&A during the lightning round,
but please feel free to use
the ideas section to chat
with other attendees.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Robert Jacobi,
Director of WordPress at Cloudways,
and it's my great
pleasure to talk about
whether the cloud can
accelerate accessibility.
Let's jump right into it.
What cloud are we talking about?
I like to look at the cloud
in a couple of different ways.
There are some of the more
traditional understandings
of what the cloud is, and then a
couple of other parts and pieces.
I like to think about it first and
foremost from a hosting perspective.
Why?
Because everything
is hosted somewhere.
No matter what kind of application,
whether it's on, you know, AWS,
Digital Ocean, Cloudways,
or self-hosted, some other kind
of virtual private server,
everything is hosted somewhere.
Hosting is the critical component
of everything that's online.
I know it's probably pretty
self-explanatory and obvious,
but this means that folks who are
in hosting have a critical role
in how quickly
accessibility is adopted.
My next cloud is the cloud
of interaction social media.
Tons of user generated content.
This is the place where folks
come in and out to drop in videos,
images, texts, audio, everything.
Of course, we’re talking about
Instagram, twitter, Pinterest.
Whatever is out there [chuckle]
that can really be
considered social.
It's hugely important.
So much information is
going back and forth.
So, we have our hosting cloud,
sort of our social media cloud,
and then software
as a service cloud.
Every other application online,
and we use these things all the time.
Everything from our banks, you know,
QuickBooks, Adobe's Creative Cloud.
All kinds of applications.
Microsoft 365, Google Workspace,
you know, that's that software
as a service cloud.
It tries to cover all of
those more niche applications
that I wouldn't say that are
typically hosting or social media.
Our next question is, does the cloud
actually understand accessibility?
What do I mean by that?
Have they done some of that
homework that's even necessary
to really ramp up and accelerate
accessibility for everyone?
Let's take a look at a
couple of quick items.
Is that cloud provider,
whether it's a hosting company,
social media company,
some other software as a service,
is their site accessible?
Are they doing some of the legwork
to implement accessibility,
you know, on their own?
That's usually a first step for
a lot of projects in development.
You're going to try things
out on your own and see
what best practices are.
So, one way to see whether
that cloud provider is looking
to the future around being
taking accessibility seriously is
whether their site is
actually assessable.
Do they have an accessibility team?
Now this is critical for a small
to medium to large size business.
A lot of times that team can
be outsourced, of course.
I recommend having human participants
on that accessibility team.
A lot of the software
solutions are I find today are
still much riskier than having
folks who are completely embedded
and understand what the necessary
requirements for accessibility are
so other accessibility
experts on staff.
Again, we are looking at, you
know, where cloud providers, again,
hosting social media, SES,
whether, you know, whether they're
on the road to being successful
on accessibility to see
how quickly they will support
some of the ideas I have
for accessibility in the future.
So other accessibility experts
on staff and then sort of almost
at the furthest level,
is there actual assessable support
for customers?
Is this some kind of chat
bot that really doesn't work
with all sorts of
assessable applications?
Is it completely incompatible
with screen readers?
Is there an understanding
on support teams that they
may be interacting with someone
who has assessable requirements?
So, you know,
understanding, again, where
on the spectrum a cloud provider
might be, I think is critical,
because the cloud can help a lot.
Where could the cloud help?
In literally everything,
and it's interesting how especially
how it can benefit
WordPress, developers,
agencies, and even end users.
The cloud can help,
first and foremost,
by enforcing front-end
accessibility.
I mentioned user created
content earlier, because I think
that it's almost a quick and
dirty way to start dropping
in some type of accessibility that
is clear, easy, understood well.
My favorite example is if you
are going to upload an image,
that image can't be uploaded
without proper tagging, period.
The cloud can enforce this.
I mean, it's so easy for all
of these applications that,
you know, tie into your camera
and just be like, upload away,
upload away, but the cloud can
force front-end accessibility
and say, Thanks for your
image, we can't publish this
until you fill out
assessable content.
That move in itself would
greatly benefit the Internet
for accessibility requirements.
We can do that with all
sorts of content, obviously.
So, if we are looking at,
you know, I mentioned images,
because I think that's probably one
of the easiest enforceability aspects
on the front-end, but also obviously
video, audio, going through
some of that legwork.
Maybe even offering it as some
type of upsell to make sure
that it's done right.
I mentioned I'm not a big
fan of automated solutions,
but they're sometimes
better than nothing, right?
So, again, having a level of
front-end accessibility enforcement
I think is critical to the
success of the Internet,
as well as something that can
dramatically accelerate the adoption
of good accessibility on the
Internet by these cloud providers.
[clears throat]
That’s right, hosting companies
can make that requirement.
It's really education for
both developers and end-users
that this is going to be part
of the process, you know,
we don't allow bad tagging anymore
in HTML for that same reason.
It's going to take
me to the next bit
of the conversation is enforcing
infrastructure accessibility,
render with standards.
Everything should be, you know,
run through some kind of code checker
and enforcing on the
backend is really important
that improves the quality of
code, obviously,
and makes that code also assessable
to folks who want to update it.
So, if you think about that in
the open-source space, but can
from sort of a bottom-up
start percolating
on the earlier side talking about
enforcing front-end standards.
Going one step, one step at a time.
Tied very closely to
infrastructure, of course,
is third-party accessibility.
The cloud can enforce
third-party accessibility.
Don't accept Plugins,
JavaScripts, and APIs
that have not been
thoroughly vetted.
The cloud can make sure that
happens either as a provider
of those services or as a,
you know, a recipient end-user
of those services.
We don't need WordPress
Plugins that aren't successful.
We don't need bad JavaScript
that screws up page rendering.
We don't need APIs that
don't spit out data
that isn't accessibly tagged,
that isn't ready to be repurposed
in an assessable standard.
So many times, we are getting
content images, media directly
from the API,
and that's all we are getting.
We are not getting all of
the metadata around that
that could actually utilize to create
a much more assessable experience
for folks, and really accessibility
improves the web all around.
If you think about the enforcement
of front-end, back-end,
and third-party integrations,
that enforcement
would dramatically
accelerate the web.
If you look at all the
opportunities that would be created,
you know, even simple things for
folks who don't need accessibility,
they don't realize how sometimes
there may be situations
where if they were working
from an assessable site,
their experience would
be dramatically improved.
Maybe it's on a mobile
phone on a bright day
and the contrast is actually
good enough, and it has
maybe improved it, I should
say, by an accessible website,
rather than on a site that's
all cluttered and garbagy,
and then you still can't
utilize the experience.
Obviously,
good tagging for everything improves
search engine optimizations.
It clarifies content.
It helps create taxonomies of data.
So, it's very exciting for me
the opportunities that exist,
that exist for the cloud to
really accelerate adoption
that's accessibility through
enforcement, front-end, back-end,
and third-party.
I hope that we can all start poking,
prodding, and really demanding
at the end of the day that those
types of standards are ones
that should be, you know,
the commonplace across the Internet,
not an exception of the rule.
We don't need bad sass,
bad hosting, bad social from
and accessibility perspective.
It only hinders communication
and at the end of the day,
I find that accessibility
improvements
are really communication
improvements.
So, thank you very much.
I am Robert Jacobi from Cloudways.
You can reach me at my e-mail
, on Twitter @robertjacobi,
and on my phone number.
Yep, I actually put that in there.
That's 847-687-5860 US.
I can't guarantee I’ll answer
everyone's text [chuckle].
Thank you very much, and have a
great WordPress Accessibility Day.